[Music]
technology has brought us a lot of
wonderful things such as ordering a
pizza with a single button or receiving
text alerts about how close your pizza
is however not everything is sunshine
and pizzas in the digital age once upon
a time you could say with confidence
that the person you were talking to is
well an actual person that's no longer
the case as robo calls and chatbots
computer programs designed to simulate a
human interaction over the phone or on
the web are more common than ever and
getting more sophisticated every day if
you want to know whether the person on
the other end is flesh and blood or
silicone and circles you'll want to hear
about these five tricks for catching
chat bots in the end
number one the account is to active
while you're poking around for your
favorite game Pizza master Pro you
notice one account seems to be posting
quite a bit of content in rapid
succession while it's understandable
that people would be enthused about the
best Pizza simulator 20 posts a day seem
like a bit much they have to sleep at
some point right not if they're a bot
they can post all night long my point is
that since BOTS don't need to sleep they
can spend all night spamming your feed
with suspiciously similar posts so if
one account is posting comments 24/7 365
you've probably got a blog on your hands
while we're on the subject of Sami posts
number two suspiciously similar comments
not everyone has a direct line to the
muses so maybe you shouldn't be too
harsh on people for leaning on the same
old jokes it might get annoying but it
doesn't mean they're a machine now if
they're posting the exact same comment
all the time and every single one has a
to the same website you probably have a
board on your hands
an annoying bot which is the worst kind
and I'm including the ones designed to
steal your credit card numbers chat bots
may be complicated machines but they're
still just machines creative thinking
isn't exactly their Forte or they're a
pommel either and if you get that joke
you deserve a prize but pick words out
of comments posted by real humans and
run them through an algorithm to select
the appropriate response the complexity
of the algorithms and number of
responses will vary depending on the
resources available to whoever
programmed it but it doesn't take that
much programming knowledge to get a
basic bot up and running this is easier
to pull off in a text-based medium like
Facebook reddit or YouTube's comment
section but it can work over the phone
too
the weakness here is that there are only
so many responses the programmer can
plan for so a similar question or
statement will usually result in an
identical response this means that if
you're ever not sure what you're dealing
with
you can try asking them a series of very
similar questions if they respond with
the same thing over and over again and
don't notice you're asking slight
variations on the same question then
you've got a bot in your chat number
three they have trouble answering simple
questions chat bots are pretty good at
pulling trivia out of thin air they're
basically just a search engine with
delusions of humanity so it would be
pretty embarrassing if a bot designed to
pass as a human can be outsmarted by
Siri or Google voice conversations are
more than just listing facts and
answering yes or no questions they
require a little bit of common sense a
field that computers don't exactly excel
at BOTS often don't know what to do with
jokes and have no understanding of
context or the nuance of social
interaction sarcasm
what's that you can take advantage of
this failing through a trick known as
2-step disassociation this is where you
ask the potential bada question
then follow it up with a second question
that only makes sense in the context of
the first when explaining this concept
digital marketing expert Anthony helm
stead er uses the following example the
human caller asked the but where it's
located and it replies Seattle the
caller then asks what's the weather like
outside and the Machine replies can you
please rephrase the question
a human would understand that the caller
was asking what the weather was like in
Seattle but the bot just can't connect
those dots if your customer service rep
can't make a simple connection like that
it probably isn't a real person on the
other end on the subject of things that
aren't real people white doesn't
Google's voice have a name Amazon Apple
and Microsoft all named their digital
assistants so why not Google don't feel
bad Google Voice I think you're
fantastic what about you bright cider
tell me in the comments if you prefer
Siri Alexa Google or Cortana when you
need to look something up but don't want
to get your hands dirty on that filthy
keyboard number for sparse profiles do
you remember the first time you logged
into Facebook they wanted you to set a
profile picture a background picture
enter a birthday job school hometown
relationship status and plenty of other
things well not everyone fills out every
single field
most people will at least cover the
basics just enough for people to get an
idea of who you are beyond the pictures
of cats eggs and cats in egg cartons
that's a real thing by the way since
humans are big on oversharing you can
probably guess that bots aren't that
into it most websites that allow users
to leave public comments require them to
register an account not every site
expects a full bio and not every person
is willing to give it but if the account
is nothing more than a name and
placeholder profile pic the new might
have
on your hands well this might not be
conclusive evidence it's a pretty big
red flag if you notice a whole bunch of
these barren accounts that's a much
bigger red flag in that case you don't
just have one one you have an
infestation you see the automatic
responses BOTS give out tend to be chock
full of keywords those keywords attract
other BOTS whose responses attract more
BOTS this can lead to a feedback loop of
automatic responses to automatic
responses even when things don't
escalate that far but still love to
follow each other around particularly
nefarious programmers will go as far as
creating BOTS specifically to upvote the
comments of their other BOTS so if you
ever see a bunch of incomplete accounts
with obviously randomly generated names
are tagging each other's tweets you've
got yourself a flock of bots
number five clumsy attempts to steer the
conversation people just don't go around
programming BOTS for the sake of it they
serve a purpose some are ads some are
scams and some are there because even
trolls need to get their beauty sleep
as a result BOTS have something of a
one-track mind and will continuously try
to twist the conversation around to
whatever their programmer wants it to be
this can overlap with its inability to
read the room when they try to warp the
discourse in nonsensical ways what does
laser hair removal have to do with the
game review you just read nothing is
there a paragraph length comment raving
about it you bet
users and moderators have gotten pretty
good at spotting the clumsier attempts
but more sophisticated BOTS can slip
under the radar as long as no one looks
too closely still a bot is a bot and
even when the programmers try to be
subtle they tend to fixate on one topic
exclusively while a clever bot might be
able to slip past the casual observer
get them talking and it's not long
before their limitations start to show
hearing about all this you might get the
impression that all chatbots are bad
that isn't the case and many serve
useful functions consumer service BOTS
can be frustrating but they can help
troubleshoot problems that don't require
human intervention robo calls can be a
pain but also serve essential purposes
such as appointment reminders and
emergency alerts still there are enough
sneaky robots out there that it's handy
to know how to tell a person from a
machine Loyd moon ok yes I am real and
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life